  Review of Petrov  M.Sc. Thesis

 "Extensions of DUAL and AMBR"

  Review by Linda Smith


     This thesis presents a thorough and scholarly review of theories of
cognitive architecture and the modelling enterprise. The thesis work itself
has a narrow and specific goal: to extend the existing model by developing
a portable computer program and to perform simulations on analogy-making.
The thesis also states that the goal is to develop new 'agents' (the
primitive units in the model). The first two goals are clearly met. The
third is not explicitly presented in the simulation or in the discussion
of kinds of agents which is presented more generally and encyclopedically
than a discussion of the contribution of this specific thesis.

     The thesis is excellent in its consideration of its own limitations.
Indeed, there is little to add in that regard or in the plans for future
research. The specific simulation of problem solving presented is circum-
scribed but well-done. It provides a demonstration proof of how successful
applications of knowledge may be found for 'new' problems. A plus, perhaps,
is the treatment of relational (structural) and similarity (object)
properties of domains and targets in the same way. The early object-based
matches and the subsequent relation-based matches fall out of the relative
frequency of the two kinds of information in representations of problems
rather than from two kinds of processes (as in Gentner). However, this
could end up as being a negative depending on behavioral data. One wonders
whether AMBR could successfully model structural alignment (perhaps as a
priming of relations ?) and comparison effects found by Gentner.

     Clearly deserving of a Masters in Science.
